
Project Layout
==============

The following files and directories are found at root of the Sprite repository:

``configure``

The script used to configure Sprite.  Run this before running `make`.  Doing so
creates a file ``Make.config``.

``curry``

Directory containing the Curry library that comes with Sprite.

``docs``

Directory contining files to build documentation.  Say `cd docs && make html`
to build HTML documentation.

``examples``

Directory containing examples to help get started with Sprite.

``extern``

Directory containing external projects used by Sprite.  The GIT `submodules`
feature is used to populate this.

``(install)``

Directory created by the `make stage` command.  Sprite is installed to here for
use in testing and building documentation.  It is safe to remove this directory.

``(object-root)``

Directory used for all build products such as object files, libraries, and
documentation.  It is safe to remove this directory, and doing so cleans up
the build environment completely.

``overlay*.tgz``

Contains ICurry and related files for a specific version of PAKCS.  Use `make
overlay` to apply the overlay.  It is important to choose a version of PAKCS
that matches one of the overlay files, as it reduces the time required to run
tests from several hours to just a few minutes.  Applying the overlay avoids
having to run the ICurry program many hundreds of times.

``spritelog.vim``

A Vim syntax-highlighting file for the Sprite debug output.  Consider using
this if you need to look at computation traces generated by Sprite.

``src``

The Sprite source code.

``tests``

The Sprite tests.  See tests/README for details.

